Thanks for downloading my project!
To run the three-tier banking system in Python please follow the steps below:

Ensure Python 3.8 or later is loaded and install the following on every machine:

pip install Pyro5 serpent openpyxl

Place all five files in the same directory (folder) on each machine:
shared.py
bdb_server.py
bas_server.py
bc_client.py
export_db.py, this file just audits the database, but it is good to have this tool ready!

Setup on one Computer
Once the environment is setup, open four terminals all in the same project directory. Each of these terminals will run a separate server or database for our banking system.
In each terminal, run each command in order.

Terminal 1:     python -m Pyro5.nameserver
Terminal 2:     python bdb_server.py
Terminal 3:     python bas_server.py
Terminal 4:     python bc_client.py	The command-line UI Login screen should appear

Please run each terminal one at a time, starting with the Nameserver ensuring each command executes correctly.

Setup on separate systems
Before we begin, confirm that all machines (2-4) are on the same local network.
Also confirm the IP addresses of at least one machine.
Find the IP address of the Machine (A) that you want to use as the Nameserver. Then navigate back to the project’s directory.

Then start the nameserver bound to that IP by using the following command in the terminal:
python -m Pyro5.nameserver --host 192.168.1.10 (YOUR IP INSTEAD)

Once confirmed by the “NS running on localhost” message, we can now point to the Nameserver via Machine (A)’s IP address.
For the rest of the machines, use the following commands with Machine (A)’s IP address:

Command (copy and paste but replace with YOUR IP)

export PYRO_NS_HOST=192.168.1.10          	MacOS or Linux
set PYRO_NS_HOST=192.168.1.10             	Windows CMD
$env:PYRO_NS_HOST="192.168.1.10	            Windows PowerShell

Once this command has executed, then follow it with the BDB, BAS and Client commands shown below:
Machine 2:     python bdb_server.py
Machine 3:     python bas_server.py
Machine 4:     python bc_client.py	The command-line UI Login screen should appear

The three-tier banking system should be running with its UI on the final machine/terminal.

Log in using one of the three pre-loaded accounts:
aaron       aaron123
harry       harry123
kun         kun123

Exporting the Database and stopping the system
Use the following command in a terminal at the projects directory:
python export_db.py
This creates a db_export folder containing CSV files for each table and a single banking_data.xlsx workbook highlighting all actions untaken within the system.

To stop the system go back into each terminal and in reverse order stop each process with: Ctrl + C

Aaron Mark Kalaji
10670705, CSI3344 Distributed Systems
22nd May, 2026
